= Usage =

Usage of VoiceOver can be summarized as navigating through
contents of the application's screen, hearing the contents of the
currently navigated-to item, and optionally interacting with the
currently navigated-to item.

To be able to use VoiceOver for most basic tasks, you need to learn
just 3 gestures - we call this basic usage.  To take full advantage of
VoiceOver gestures for effective work with VoiceOver, you can study
the advanced usage section.

== Basic usage == basic

=== Navigating using VoiceOver === basic-navigating
To navigate using VoiceOver, you use touch gestures. The basic
navigation gestures are:

 * flick left: navigate to the previous item
 * flick right: naviaget to the next item

To be able to interact with the selected item, like open it, see next
section.

Another way to navigate items on screen is to simply touch the screen
and move your finger around.  VoiceOver will announce items on the
screen as you move your finger.

=== Interacting with content using VoiceOver === basic-interacting

You can interact with an item depending on the type of item.

If the item is a button, you can double-tap it to activate the action
associated with the button. The associated action can be:

 * toggling a setting on or off (e.g. "Airplane Mode" in Settings app)
 * opening a new screen with content related to the description of the
   button (e.g. "WiFi" in Settings app)
 * performing an action described in the description of the button
   (e.g. "Send" button can send email in the Mail app)

Interacting with the item can change a numerical value, use "flick up"
and "flick down" gestures to increase or decrease the value,
respectively. This is for example:
 * the "Speaking Rate" slider in VoiceOver settings
 * name of day or month in calendar date editing control

== Advanced usage == advanced

You can refer to Apple's manual for advanced gestures.  We will just
sum up things you can do with VoiceOver to get you motivated to read
the manual:

 * touch typing
 * rotor, including its usage in web pages
 * scrolling through page for quicker navigation
 * navigating contacts using first letter of name
 * gesture for navigating one level back in hierarchical views

== Scenarios and tasks == tasks

=== Unlocking screen === tasks-unlock

Screen gets locked automatically after some time. When screen is
locked, you cannot interact with the device. The only thing the device
responds to in such case is request to unlock the screen.

To lock the screen, press the physical lock button located at the top
right part of your device.

To unlock the screen:
 * press either the home button or lock button
 * navigate with flicking right to "slide to unlock"
 * double-tap the screen anywhere

=== Home screen === tasks-homescreen

The home screen is the basic location from which you start most
activities.  The home screen contains applications that you can
launch.  The applications on the home screen are arranged
rectangularly with 5 rows, each having 4 apps.  You can navigate
through the applications by moving your finger around the screen,  or
by flicking left and right.  You open an app by double-tapping it.

In order to accomodate for having many apps,  the home screen is
paged.  That means that it has several pages and you are displaying
only one at a time.  To have VoiceOver tell you which page of home
screen you are currently displaying, tap the screen with three
fingers.  To move between pages, flick with three fingers left or
right.  The last row of the home screen is called the Dock and stays
the same across all pages. 

There is an additional extra page before page 1 called "iPod search",
"iPhone search", or other depending on your device.  There you can
enter text which is searched for in most items on your device (like
contacts, emails etc.).  To learn how to use the keyboard to enter the
search term, see section [tasks-keyboard].

=== 
